# My Project Website
## Team Members
- Sabeeha Hasham
- Maher Abo Abed
- Basel Feras Ghunaim
- Ahmad Nasser Alshehhi
## Project Question
How can we design, program and implement a robot to act as a pick and place robot?
A series of considerations need to be aknowledged in order to move forward such as the core mechanical design ensuring it is capable of physically reaching and obtianing a particular object alongside the end effector based on the size and weight of the object. The control system and vision system integration are vital in order to coordinate joints, detect and locate objects in real time. Ensuring the robot moves efficiently, smoothly and avoids colliding with other objects is also significant, this can be ensured by testing it under a series of conditions like lighting and environment. Ensuring the system is safe and reliable to use is one of the main factors within this project allowing it to handle certain situations effectively. 
## Background
Pick and place robots are essential in manufacturing for high demand, fast sorting or assembling, they are vital to reduce labour and safety risks whilst having more efficient production. In this case, integrating them with vision detection and sorting can be vital for larger scale operations involving a lot of moving pieces, this also optimises production as it is a key factor within fully functioning systems. Within this project alone, extensive researech has been conducted on current systems and a series of CAD designs and styles have been explored highlighting the relevance and significance they have in the industry. Vision guided automation integrating cameras and computer vision is used for adaptation of robots within already existing processes making them more suitable for a wider range of applications.
## Project Resources
- Initial research and component selection [decision matrix.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/26385424/decision.matrix.pdf)
- Testing out training GoogLeNet [GoogLeNet.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/26385389/GoogLeNet.pdf)
- Testing HSV colour detection [HSV Colour.pdf](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/26385459/HSV.Colour.pdf)
- [Slides](https://onedrive.live.com/:p:/g/personal/703AAC645A13E227/IQBCuOZWbd8kRK5by9EaAo-8AQIh4HUF3hnXKFPePALMK-4?resid=703AAC645A13E227!s56e6b842df6d4424ae5bcbd11a028fbc&ithint=file%2Cpptx&e=gc9r5H&migratedtospo=true&redeem=aHR0cHM6Ly8xZHJ2Lm1zL3AvYy83MDNhYWM2NDVhMTNlMjI3L0lRQkN1T1pXYmQ4a1JLNWJ5OUVhQW8tOEFRSWg0SFVGM2huWEtGUGVQQUxNSy00P2U9Z2M5cjVI)
## Results
This project aims to focus on the design and implementation of a robot that is required to pick up one of five objects and place it in its respective container. Some improvements that have happened over the last couple of weeks are a more comprehensive understanding of the component and component selection, a CAD design has almost been produced and the functionality of how the robot will function has been heavily discussed with regards to the environment it will be placed in and the parameters surrounding testing. Vision detection has been implemented using a GoogLeNet model aiming to include shape detection, when issues were faced alternatives were explored such as colour detection using Opencv. Training a model will be revisited however, when a model was initially trained there was not an adequate number of images per object therefore this can hinder the model's accuracy and it meant that it was misinterpreting some objects for others therefore for the next trial run there needs to be a much larger photo range in different lighting with different backgrounds. Colour detection was explored and HSV range values were altered based on tests conducted and the object was easily identified however it was a simple spherical object as opposed to a more complex shape, issues with the nut and bolt detection have arisen so this should be rectified first.
## Bibliography
Journal, Irjet. “IRJET- Pick and Place Robotic Arm: A Review Paper.” IRJET, 1 Jan. 2021, www.academia.edu/50953983/IRJET_Pick_and_Place_Robotic_Arm_A_Review_Paper. Accessed 15 Mar. 2024.
Zehor Lahlah, et al. Color Sorting Robot Using Raspberry Pi and OpenCv “FALCON.” 1 May 2022, www.researchgate.net/publication/364056960_Color_Sorting_Robot_using_Raspberry_pi_and_OpenCv_FALCON.
